So in the last lecture we created a plugin and we activated it.
But right now it doesn't do anything.
So let's in functions.php in the theme let's remove the metaboxes file.
And so now if we edit a post we won't get our metaboxes here.
So now we need to move this code from the plugin to the theme or actually from theme to our plugin.
So let's go to the metaboxes.php. And let's copy and just like the theme any code you would like
to run in a plug in you should add it in the index.php.
It's like the functions.php for a theme. But instead of doing that let's create a new folder just for better
organization and call it includes.
And a new file and let's call it metaboxes.php.
And let's include.
So let's use include_once() and this will be "includes/metaboxes.php".
So let's see now
our edit page. And we still don't have it.
I'm wondering why we have our plugin active.
Case who apparently I discovered that I just did not save the metaboxes.php file.
So I saved it and now our field appear here.
But let's just see if we will have to change anything in this code. So we've our prefixes here which we
will replace in the plugins gulp tasks.
However in the text domains it's not "_themename" anymore.
It's "_themename-_pluginname".
So we'll have to go through all the text domains and you can use Cmd+D and select all of them.
And then just replace.
So I think that would be it.
You can if you want prefix your functions with the theme name and the plugin name. So "__"
"__pluginname" but I think the "_themename"s will be fine.
So let's now try to run our tasks. We need to create a folder called src.
And there're inside of it assets, remember.
And then in our case we might not need CSS and JavaScript on plugin.
But let's just create a general plugin that we can use for any plugin that we will create throughout
this course
And you might actually need to enqueue some styles to maybe change the styles of these fields.
So let's create our admin.js.
And our admin.scss.
And let's add some dummy CSS here.
And of course.
And also some dummy CSS, javascript.
And now we should be able to run our tasks.
So let's run "npm start"
And this will build and clean and watch and all the stuff that we did before.
And we now should have this foldew with our compiled assets. So the _themename-metaboxes
folder will only be for development.
We'll have the uncompiled files and stuff like that.
And then when we build and compile, we will have our final plugin in the package folder. And we'll see this
in a moment but let's just now enqueue our scripts. So in the includes folder let's create a new file. And let's call
it enqueue-assets.php.
And let's open PHP and we've done this before so I'm gonna paste it and let's go through it quickly.
So the difference now is that we'll only enqueue for admin.
And then the function name, since in the theme we had a function called "_themename_admin_scripts",
I decided to add the also the plugin name prefix.
So when we build our plugin this function will be called "firsttheme_"
"firsttheme_metaboxes_admin" and so on.
And also when we enqueue our script I added "_themename-_pluginname" -admin-scripts in order not to clash with
the "_themename-admin-scripts". And to get the URL in the plugin
we don't use get_template_directory_uri(), we use a function called plugins_url(). And this will get
you the URL for the plugins folder,
this default folder. And it takes as an argument the path the plugins folder.
So in our case it's our plugins name and then"/dist/assets/" and so on.
And same for the stylesheets.
Let's now include the enqueue-assets in the index.php.
And we now have a JavaScript. And let's make sure that the CSS is loaded.
And we have it now but it's overridden by this style.
One more thing we can do here.
If you go to any admin page let's say the Dashboard, you will have these files loaded.
However in the metaboxes we will only use these files only if we are in the Edit Post page, right?
So it's kind of wasting resources to load these files in all the Admin pages when we only need them
in the Edit Post page. So to tackle that we can add a if condition here.
So let's access a global variable called
$pagenow.
And this global variable holds the current page name which will be this name, post.php. So we can just check "if
( $pagenow !== 'post.php')" we can return.
We don't need to do load this files.
So let's check now.
So as you can see we get no alert here.
But if you go to the Edit Post page we get it. So let's just remove these.
Right now we have like a foundation for any plugin that we need to create in this course. So when you
create a new plugin we can just copy this folder and change the stuff that we include in the index.php
index.php.
But the gulp tasks and the enqueue-assets,
it will probably be the same for all the plugins that we will create.
This is one final step for this lecture.
We need to build our plugin to make sure that everything is fine.
So let's run "npm run build".
And now we should find our build plugin.
Oh, actually sorry "npm run bundle".
So now we should have the package folder here and inside of it.
And now it's called firsttheme-metaboxes.zip. Let's unzip it. And let's make sure that, let's open
index.php.
And as you can see it's now called "firsttheme metaboxes" and the Text Domain is "firsttheme-metaboxes".
Let's also make sure that our functions are replaced correctly. So we now have firsttheme_meta
boxes.
And here as well.
And the text domains here are now "firsttheme-metaboxes".
So looks fine.
What we need to do now is we need to,
let's delete this, we need to put this file, zip file somewhere inside our theme.
So let's say, inside theme and firsttheme and. So let's save in the lib folder. Let's create a new folder called
plugins.
And then inside of it paste our plugin.
Now if you are developing for Theme Forest, it's a requirement that all the plugins that you create that will
be associated with your theme. It should be bundled inside your theme like so.
And you should also do something that will display a message in the wp-admin that will say "These
plugins are required to be installed with this theme.
Do you want to start installing them now?". And to do that we'll have to do some integration with a third
party library.
So let's do that in the next lecture.